blog/2020-08-31.mdx, before:

---
slug: an-infinite-circular-carousel-with-css-flex-and-little-js
title: An infinite/circular carousel with css flex and little JS
author: Nikhil Mehta
author_title: Web Developer and Open source contributor
author_url: https://github.com/technikhil314
author_image_url: https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/6815560?s=460&u=9dfdf0cd916a97fc0f6b85ad9e6a55843c9ffe1b&v=4
tags: [css, a11y, webdev, ux, carousel]
---

import { CodePen } from "../src/components/codePen";

Lately I have been playing a lot with css (and finally yes I get to do what I love) I was actually thinking of several applications of flex order property. Last usecase I found helps to solve a small accessibility issue in signup/NDA forms head [here to see what it was](/blog/a-practical-use-case-of-web-accessibility-solved-with-css-flexbox).

This one tries to create a bare minimum infinite/circular carousel with as less as 70 lines of code all included HTML,CSS,JS

<!--truncate-->

### What do I mean by circular/infinite carousel?

> Its a carousel that has n number of slides and it keeps scrolling to right side (for LTR languages) and (n+1)th chilid is again 1st child.

### So lets start

- I will be using css flex, flex order, scroll-snap and little bit of plain JS to make our carousel autoscroll.
- This is going to be a bare minimum carousel

#### Lets take a look at basic HTML and css for our carousel

```
<div class="carouselWrapper">
    <div class="carouselContainer">
        <div class="carouselItem">
            <img height="100px" width="100%" src="//via.placeholder.com/1000x100/FFFF00/000000/?text=Carousel+Item+21"
                alt="" />
        </div>
        <div class="carouselItem">
            <img height="100px" width="100%" src="//via.placeholder.com/1000x100/FF0000/FFFFFF/?text=Carousel+Item+22"
                alt="" />
        </div>
        <div class="carouselItem">
            <img height="100px" width="100%" src="//via.placeholder.com/1000x100/00FF00/000000?text=Carousel+Item+23"
                alt="" />
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
```

and here is the css

```
.carouselWrapper {
  position: relative;
}

.carouselContainer {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: nowrap;
  overflow-x: auto;
}
.carouselContainer .carouselItem {
  flex-grow: 0;
  flex-shrink: 0;
  max-width: 100%;
}
```

Check the codepen

<CodePen codePenEmbedUrl="https://codepen.io/nikhil-001mehta/pen/NWxEBVz"></CodePen>

You can get rid of that horizontal scroll bar using following css and add scroll snap to it

```
.carouselContainer {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: nowrap;
  scroll-snap-type: x mandatory;
  scroll-behavior: smooth;
  overflow-x: auto;
  scrollbar-width: 0;
  scrollbar-color: transparent transparent;
}
.carouselContainer::-webkit-scrollbar {
  display: none;
}
.carouselContainer .carouselItem {
    flex-grow: 0;
    flex-shrink: 0;
    max-width: 100%;
    // we are telling browser to align each item centrally to
    // screen as it scrolls into viewport
    scroll-snap-align: center;
}
```

We have added following property `scroll-snap-type: x mandatory;` to `carouselContainer` class

> here We are telling browser to apply scroll snap on
> horizontal axis and make it manadatory to scroll one item
> fully to snap behaviour to kick in.
> [check more details here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-snap-type)

We are also adding `scroll-snap-align: center;` property to `carouselItem` class

> we are telling browser to align each item centrally to
> screen as it scrolls into viewport

<CodePen codePenEmbedUrl="https://codepen.io/nikhil-001mehta/pen/gOrYRgx"></CodePen>

Now lets add little bit of javascript

```
let index = 0;
const speed = 5;
const numberOfSlides = 3;
const carouselContainer = document.querySelector(".carouselContainer");
const carouselItemWidth = carouselContainer.scrollWidth / numberOfSlides;
setInterval(() => {
  carouselContainer.scrollBy(carouselItemWidth, 0);
  timeoutId = setTimeout(() => {
    index = index % numberOfSlides;
    let childToMove = carouselContainer.querySelectorAll(`.carouselItem`)[
      index
    ];
    // The line below move the item to end of carousel by
    // manipulating its flex order
    childToMove.style.order =
      childToMove.style.order && childToMove.style.order === 0
        ? 1
        : +childToMove.style.order + 1;
    index++;
    clearTimeout(timeoutId);
  }, 1000);
}, speed * 1000);
```

And woohoo our carousel is running

<CodePen codePenEmbedUrl="https://codepen.io/nikhil-001mehta/pen/ExKYXba"></CodePen>

Let me know your thoughts on this.

Commit message:

fix: removed author and author related front matter

blog/2020-08-31.mdx, after:

---
slug: using-scoll-snap-to-create-carousel
title: Using scoll snap to create carousel
tags: [css, a11y, webdev, ux, carousel]
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import { CodePen } from "../src/components/codePen";

Lately I have been playing a lot with css (and finally yes I get to do what I love) I was actually thinking of several applications of flex order property. Last usecase I found helps to solve a small accessibility issue in signup/NDA forms head [here to see what it was](/blog/a-practical-use-case-of-web-accessibility-solved-with-css-flexbox).

This one tries to create a bare minimum infinite/circular carousel with as less as 70 lines of code all included HTML,CSS,JS

<!--truncate-->

### What do I mean by circular/infinite carousel?

> Its a carousel that has n number of slides and it keeps scrolling to right side (for LTR languages) and (n+1)th chilid is again 1st child.

### So lets start

- I will be using css flex, flex order, scroll-snap and little bit of plain JS to make our carousel autoscroll.
- This is going to be a bare minimum carousel

#### Lets take a look at basic HTML and css for our carousel

```
<div class="carouselWrapper">
    <div class="carouselContainer">
        <div class="carouselItem">
            <img height="100px" width="100%" src="//via.placeholder.com/1000x100/FFFF00/000000/?text=Carousel+Item+21"
                alt="" />
        </div>
        <div class="carouselItem">
            <img height="100px" width="100%" src="//via.placeholder.com/1000x100/FF0000/FFFFFF/?text=Carousel+Item+22"
                alt="" />
        </div>
        <div class="carouselItem">
            <img height="100px" width="100%" src="//via.placeholder.com/1000x100/00FF00/000000?text=Carousel+Item+23"
                alt="" />
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
```

and here is the css

```
.carouselWrapper {
  position: relative;
}

.carouselContainer {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: nowrap;
  overflow-x: auto;
}
.carouselContainer .carouselItem {
  flex-grow: 0;
  flex-shrink: 0;
  max-width: 100%;
}
```

Check the codepen

<CodePen codePenEmbedUrl="https://codepen.io/nikhil-001mehta/pen/NWxEBVz"></CodePen>

You can get rid of that horizontal scroll bar using following css and add scroll snap to it

```
.carouselContainer {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: nowrap;
  scroll-snap-type: x mandatory;
  scroll-behavior: smooth;
  overflow-x: auto;
  scrollbar-width: 0;
  scrollbar-color: transparent transparent;
}
.carouselContainer::-webkit-scrollbar {
  display: none;
}
.carouselContainer .carouselItem {
    flex-grow: 0;
    flex-shrink: 0;
    max-width: 100%;
    // we are telling browser to align each item centrally to
    // screen as it scrolls into viewport
    scroll-snap-align: center;
}
```

We have added following property `scroll-snap-type: x mandatory;` to `carouselContainer` class

> here We are telling browser to apply scroll snap on
> horizontal axis and make it manadatory to scroll one item
> fully to snap behaviour to kick in.
> [check more details here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-snap-type)

We are also adding `scroll-snap-align: center;` property to `carouselItem` class

> we are telling browser to align each item centrally to
> screen as it scrolls into viewport

<CodePen codePenEmbedUrl="https://codepen.io/nikhil-001mehta/pen/gOrYRgx"></CodePen>

Now lets add little bit of javascript

```
let index = 0;
const speed = 5;
const numberOfSlides = 3;
const carouselContainer = document.querySelector(".carouselContainer");
const carouselItemWidth = carouselContainer.scrollWidth / numberOfSlides;
setInterval(() => {
  carouselContainer.scrollBy(carouselItemWidth, 0);
  timeoutId = setTimeout(() => {
    index = index % numberOfSlides;
    let childToMove = carouselContainer.querySelectorAll(`.carouselItem`)[
      index
    ];
    // The line below move the item to end of carousel by
    // manipulating its flex order
    childToMove.style.order =
      childToMove.style.order && childToMove.style.order === 0
        ? 1
        : +childToMove.style.order + 1;
    index++;
    clearTimeout(timeoutId);
  }, 1000);
}, speed * 1000);
```

And woohoo our carousel is running

<CodePen codePenEmbedUrl="https://codepen.io/nikhil-001mehta/pen/ExKYXba"></CodePen>

Let me know your thoughts on this.
