docs/daterangepicker/options.md, before:

---
id: configuration-options
title: Options
---

Currently, these options are available but I will keep on developing and adding more and more options

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Option Name</th>
            <th>Type</th>
            <th>Purpose</th>
            <th>Default Value</th>
            <th>Possible Values</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>format</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>format that this date and time range picker will use to communicate with your code</td>
            <td>"YYYY-MM-DD"</td>
            <td>As per <a href="https://day.js.org/"> dayjs </a> standard formats</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>displayFormat</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>format that will be displayed to end user</td>
            <td>Same as format</td>
            <td>As per <a href="https://day.js.org/"> dayjs </a> standard formats</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>startDate</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>Default start date when this components is rendered for first time. Format of this date should be in line with format option's value above</td>
            <td>Current Systetm Date</td>
            <td>date string in line with format option's value above</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>endDate</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>Default end date when this components is rendered for first time. Format of this date should be in line with format option's value above</td>
            <td>Current Systetm Date</td>
            <td>date string in line with format option's value above</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>minDate</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>Default minimum date not including this date. End user will not be able select all dates before this date. Format of this date should be in line with format option's value above</td>
            <td>null</td>
            <td>date string in line with format option's value above</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>maxDate</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>Default maximum date not including this date. End user will not be able select all dates after this date. Format of this date should be in line with format option's value above</td>
            <td>null</td>
            <td>date string in line with format option's value above</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>inactiveBeforeStart</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Blurs all dates before selected start date. So end user can not select toDate to be before fromDate.</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>autoApply</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Removes apply and cancel buttons and applies as soon as user selects end date</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>showRanges</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Predefined ranges to show to end user. So end user has ready options instead of navingating through calendars.</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>preDefinedRanges</td>
            <td> Array of object shown as <a href="#custom-range-options">below</a>.</td>
            <td>Custom ranges if you want to define your own ranges. This is useful only if showRanges option is set to true.</td>
            <td>see <a href="#custom-range-options">below</a> for more details</td>
            <td>see <a href="#custom-range-options">below</a> for more details</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>noDefaultRangeSelected</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>This option set the startDate and endDate options to blank on first render.This date range picker sets startDate and endDate to be current system date by default if no value is passed to startDate and endDate.</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>singleCalendar</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Use only one calendar. So you do not need another datepicker for single month.</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>position</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>position of the flyout which will open. By default it opens on left edge of input box</td>
            <td>'left'</td>
            <td>'left','right','center'</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>theme</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>theme for overall component</td>
            <td>'light'</td>
            <td>'light','dark'</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>disabled</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Whether to disable the main input control</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>timePicker</td>
            <td>object</td>
            <td>Whether to show timepicker</td>
            <td>null</td>
            <td>Object explained as <a href="#time-picker-options">below</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>disableBeforeStart</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Whether to disable dates that ar before selected start date in right calendar. This option applies to right calendar only</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>alwaysOpen</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Whether to keep the calendars always open. This option removes the main input box where range is shown</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>required</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Sets required attribute to the input box (makes sense only if used inside form)</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Custom Range Options

For custom range, Pass options as below. For this you need to pass <a href="https://day.js.org/">dayjs</a> objects.

```js
preDefinedRanges: [
  {
    name: "Day After tomorrow",
    value: {
      start: dayjs().add(2, "days"),
      end: dayjs().add(2, "days"),
    },
  },
  {
    name: "This week",
    value: {
      start: dayjs(),
      end: dayjs().add(7, "days"),
    },
  },
];
```

All dates are supposed to be string and in format as you are passing.
You can also

```ts
import { Options } from "angular-datetimerangepicker";
```

class for passing options to the component.

### Time Picker Options

Timepicker options expects an object containing following keys as timepicker options

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Option Name</th>
            <th>Type</th>
            <th>Purpose</th>
            <th>Default Value</th>
            <th>Possible Values</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>minuteInterval</td>
            <td>(integer)number</td>
            <td>The interval by which minutes will increase/decrease when user changes minutes in timepicker</td>
            <td>1</td>
            <td>anything between 1 to 59. If you supply value greater or equal 60 then that value mod 60 is taken as actual value</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

docs: Adding warning for custom predefined ranges
uses only dayjs in custom predefined ranges

docs/daterangepicker/options.md, after:

---
id: configuration-options
title: Options
---

Currently, these options are available but I will keep on developing and adding more and more options

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Option Name</th>
            <th>Type</th>
            <th>Purpose</th>
            <th>Default Value</th>
            <th>Possible Values</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>format</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>format that this date and time range picker will use to communicate with your code</td>
            <td>"YYYY-MM-DD"</td>
            <td>As per <a href="https://day.js.org/"> dayjs </a> standard formats</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>displayFormat</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>format that will be displayed to end user</td>
            <td>Same as format</td>
            <td>As per <a href="https://day.js.org/"> dayjs </a> standard formats</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>startDate</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>Default start date when this components is rendered for first time. Format of this date should be in line with format option's value above</td>
            <td>Current Systetm Date</td>
            <td>date string in line with format option's value above</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>endDate</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>Default end date when this components is rendered for first time. Format of this date should be in line with format option's value above</td>
            <td>Current Systetm Date</td>
            <td>date string in line with format option's value above</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>minDate</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>Default minimum date not including this date. End user will not be able select all dates before this date. Format of this date should be in line with format option's value above</td>
            <td>null</td>
            <td>date string in line with format option's value above</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>maxDate</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>Default maximum date not including this date. End user will not be able select all dates after this date. Format of this date should be in line with format option's value above</td>
            <td>null</td>
            <td>date string in line with format option's value above</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>inactiveBeforeStart</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Blurs all dates before selected start date. So end user can not select toDate to be before fromDate.</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>autoApply</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Removes apply and cancel buttons and applies as soon as user selects end date</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>showRanges</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Predefined ranges to show to end user. So end user has ready options instead of navingating through calendars.</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>preDefinedRanges</td>
            <td> Array of object shown as <a href="#custom-range-options">below</a>.</td>
            <td>Custom ranges if you want to define your own ranges. This is useful only if showRanges option is set to true.</td>
            <td>see <a href="#custom-range-options">below</a> for more details</td>
            <td>see <a href="#custom-range-options">below</a> for more details</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>noDefaultRangeSelected</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>This option set the startDate and endDate options to blank on first render.This date range picker sets startDate and endDate to be current system date by default if no value is passed to startDate and endDate.</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>singleCalendar</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Use only one calendar. So you do not need another datepicker for single month.</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>position</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>position of the flyout which will open. By default it opens on left edge of input box</td>
            <td>'left'</td>
            <td>'left','right','center'</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>theme</td>
            <td>string</td>
            <td>theme for overall component</td>
            <td>'light'</td>
            <td>'light','dark'</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>disabled</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Whether to disable the main input control</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>timePicker</td>
            <td>object</td>
            <td>Whether to show timepicker</td>
            <td>null</td>
            <td>Object explained as <a href="#time-picker-options">below</a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>disableBeforeStart</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Whether to disable dates that ar before selected start date in right calendar. This option applies to right calendar only</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>alwaysOpen</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Whether to keep the calendars always open. This option removes the main input box where range is shown</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>required</td>
            <td>boolean</td>
            <td>Sets required attribute to the input box (makes sense only if used inside form)</td>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>true,false</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Custom Range Options

For custom range, Pass options as below. For this you need to pass <a href="https://day.js.org/">dayjs</a> objects.
:warning: Custom ranges should always be passed in dayjs objects

```js
preDefinedRanges: [
  {
    name: "Day After tomorrow",
    value: {
      start: dayjs().add(2, "days"),
      end: dayjs().add(2, "days"),
    },
  },
  {
    name: "This week",
    value: {
      start: dayjs(),
      end: dayjs().add(7, "days"),
    },
  },
];
```

All dates are supposed to be string and in format as you are passing.
You can also

```ts
import { Options } from "angular-datetimerangepicker";
```

class for passing options to the component.

### Time Picker Options

Timepicker options expects an object containing following keys as timepicker options

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Option Name</th>
            <th>Type</th>
            <th>Purpose</th>
            <th>Default Value</th>
            <th>Possible Values</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>minuteInterval</td>
            <td>(integer)number</td>
            <td>The interval by which minutes will increase/decrease when user changes minutes in timepicker</td>
            <td>1</td>
            <td>anything between 1 to 59. If you supply value greater or equal 60 then that value mod 60 is taken as actual value</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
